Working with Common .NET Types 424 2. Run the code and view the result, as shown in the following output: Original: Alan Shore Swapped: Shore, Alan If the format of the initial full name was different, for example, "LastName, FirstName", then the code would need to be different. As an optional exercise, try writing some statements that would change "Shore, Alan" into "Alan Shore". the input Checking a string for content Sometimes, you need to check whether a piece of text starts or ends with some characters or contains some characters. You can achieve this with methods named StartsWith, EndsWith, and Contains: 1. Add statements to store a string value and then check if it starts with or contains a couple of string values, as shown in the following code: different string company = "Microsoft"; WriteLine($"Text: {company}"); WriteLine("Starts with M: {0}, contains an N: {1}", arg0: company.StartsWith("M"), arg1: company.Contains("N")); 2. Run the code and view the result, as shown in the following output: Text: Microsoft Starts with M: True, contains an N: False Comparing string values Two common tasks with string values are sorting (aka collating) and comparing. For example, when a user enters their username or password, you need to compare what they entered with what is stored. The string class implements the IComparable interface, meaning that you can easily compare two string values using the CompareTo instance method and it will return -1, 0, or 1 depending on if the value is “less than,” “equal to,” or “greater than” the other. You saw an example of this when you im- IComparable interface for the Person class in Chapter 6, Implementing Interfaces and plemented the Inheriting Classes. But the lower or upper casing of characters can affect ordering, and the ordering rules for text are culture dependent. For example, double-L is treated as a single character in traditional Spanish, as shown in Table 8.3: Culture Description Example string values Modern: llegar comes before Spanish In 1994, the Royal Spanish Academy issued a new lugar. Traditional: llegar comes alphabetization rule to treat LL and CH as Latin after lugar. alphabetic characters instead of separate individual characters. 