Chapter 7 287 If you were to execute this on a Slovenian computer, you would get the following output: { "price": " 54.321,99" } If you then tried to insert this JSON document into a cloud database, it would fail because it would not understand the number format that uses commas for decimals and dots for groups. So you can override the current culture and specify the invariant culture only when outputting the number as a string value, as shown in the following code: decimal price = 54321.99M; string document = $$""" { "price": "{{price.ToString("N2", CultureInfo.InvariantCulture)}}" } """; If you were to execute this on a Slovenian (or any other culture) computer, you would now get the fol- lowing output, which would be successfully recognized by a cloud database and not throw exceptions: { "price": " 54,321.99" } Now, let’s see how to translate text from one language to another so that the label prompts are in the correct language for the current culture. Localizing your user interface A localized application is divided into two parts: • An assembly containing code that is the same for all locales and contains resources for when no other resource file is found. One or more assemblies that contain the user interface resources, which are different for • different locales. These are known as satellite assemblies. This model allows the initial application to be deployed with default invariant resources, and over time, additional satellite assemblies can be deployed as the resources are translated. In the coding task, you will create a console app with embedded invariant culture, and satellite assemblies for Danish, French, French-Canadian, Polish, and Iranian (Persian). To add more cultures in the future, just follow the same steps. User interface resources include any text for messages, logs, dialog boxes, buttons, labels, or even file- names of images, videos, and so on. Resource files are XML files with the .resx extension. The filename includes a culture code, for example, PacktResources.en-GB.resx or PacktResources.da-DK.resx. 