Speaking C# 112 4. Navigate to Build | Build AsyncConsole and note that the project builds successfully. In .NET 5 and earlier, you would have seen an error message, as shown in the following output: Program.cs(14,9): error CS4033: The 'await' operator can only be used within an async method. Consider marking this method with the 'async' modifier and changing its return type to 'Task'. [/Users/ markjprice/Code/ Chapter02/AsyncConsole/AsyncConsole.csproj] You would have had to add the async keyword for your Main method and change its return type from void to Task. With .NET 6 and later, the console app project tem- plate uses the top-level program feature to automatically define the Program class with an asynchronous <Main>$ method for you. 5. Run the code and view the result, which is likely to have a different number of bytes since Apple changes its home page frequently, as shown in the following output: Apple's home page has 170,688 bytes. Practicing and exploring Test your knowledge and understanding by answering some questions, getting some hands-on practice, and exploring the topics covered in this chapter with deeper research. Exercise 2.1 – Test your knowledge To get the best answer to some of these questions, you will need to do your own research. I want you to “think outside the book,” so I have deliberately not provided all the answers in the book. I want to encourage you to get into the good habit of looking for help elsewhere, following the prin- ciple of “teach a person to fish.” 1. What statement can you type in a C# file to discover the compiler and language version? 2. What are the two types of comments in C#? 3. What is the difference between a verbatim string and an interpolated string? float and double values? 4. Why should you be careful when using double uses in memory? 5. How can you determine how many bytes a type like var keyword? 6. When should you use the XmlDocument? 7. What is the newest syntax to create an instance of a class like dynamic type? 8. Why should you be careful when using the 9. How do you right-align a format string? 10. What character separates arguments for a console app? 