Chapter 3 85 If you know that you will never regenerate the classes using the tool, then feel free to change the code for the automatically generated classes as much as you want. The code generated by the tool is just the best approximation. Good Practice: Do not be afraid to overrule a tool when you know better. For example, when using SQLite for the Northwind database, date/time columns are mapped to string properties, and money columns are mapped to double properties. In the Northwind data- base, these would be better mapped to DateTime and decimal respectively, but in another database, they might need more flexibility. As another example, in the Northwind database, a CustomerId should always be five uppercase alphabetic characters. The tool cannot infer this automatically, so you could add a regular expression to validate it. Keep in mind that tool behavior is one of the more volatile components of .NET, so these examples may not be valid by the time you read this book. Setting up the dotnet-ef tool .NET has a command-line tool named dotnet. It can be extended with capabilities useful for working with EF Core. It can perform design-time tasks like creating and applying migrations from an older model to a newer model and generating code for a model from an existing database. The dotnet ef command-line tool is not automatically installed. You must install this package as ei- ther a global or local tool. If you have already installed an older version of the tool, then you should uninstall any existing version. Let’s make sure you have the latest version of the tool installed: 1. At a command prompt or terminal, check if you have already installed dotnet-ef as a global tool, as shown in the following command: dotnet tool list --global 2. Check in the list if an older version of the tool has been installed, like the one for .NET 7, as shown in the following output: Package Id Version Commands ----------------------------------------------------------------- dotnet-ef 7.0.0 dotnet-ef microsoft.web.librarymanager.cli 2.1.175 libman redth.net.maui.check 0.5.6 maui-check 3. If an older version is already installed, then uninstall the tool, as shown in the following command: dotnet tool uninstall --global dotnet-ef 4. Install the latest version, as shown in the following command: dotnet tool install --global dotnet-ef 