Introducing Apps and Services with .NET 32 • However, managing data across services introduces challenges with data consistency and transaction management. Developers often underestimate these challenges. They might try to implement distributed transactions, which are complex and can hurt performance, instead of using eventual consistency and compensation transactions (the Saga pattern). • Neglecting Operational Complexity: Microservice architectures add operational complexity. You’re moving from managing a single monolithic application to managing multiple services, each potentially written in different languages, using different data storage technologies, and running in different environments. This requires a mature DevOps capability, including automated deployment, monitoring, and • good logging practices. You need to plan for how services will be monitored, how logs will be aggregated and analyzed, and how deployments and rollbacks will be handled. • Ignoring the operational challenges of microservices can lead to significant issues down the line. For instance, it can become very difficult to debug issues that span multiple services with- out good tracing and logging. Deploying changes can become a nightmare without automated deployment and good testing practices. In conclusion, designing a microservice architecture isn’t a trivial task. It requires a deep under- standing of the business domain, careful planning, and a mature DevOps capability. However, when done right, microservices can provide significant benefits, including better scalability, flexibility, and maintainability.” GitHub Copilot Microsoft has a service specifically for programmers named GitHub Copilot that can help autocomplete code directly in your code editor. It is being enhanced with more intelligence using GPT-4. It has plugins for code editors including Visual Studio 2022, Visual Studio Code, and JetBrains IntelliJ-based IDEs. GitHub Copilot is free for students, teachers, and some open-source project maintainers. For everyone else, it has a 30-day free trial and then it costs $10 per month or $100 per year for individuals. Once you have an account, you can then sign up for the more advanced experimental GitHub Copilot X features. You should check online for which Copilot features are available for various code editors. As you can imagine, this is a fast-changing world and a lot of what I might write in the book today will be out of https://github.com/features/copilot. date by the time you read it: JetBrains has its own equivalent named AI Assistant, which you can read about at the following link: https://blog.jetbrains.com/idea/2023/06/ai-assistant-in- jetbrains-ides/. You can sign up for GitHub Copilot at the following link: https://github.com/github-copilot/signup/ 