Chapter 1 15 Warning! Visual Studio 2022 for Mac does not officially support .NET 8 and it will reach end-of-life in August 2024. If you have been using Visual Studio 2022 for Mac then you should switch to Visual Studio Code for Mac, JetBrains Rider for Mac, or use Visual Studio 2022 for Windows in a virtual machine on your local computer or in the cloud using a tech- nology like Microsoft Dev Box. The retirement announcement can be read here: https:// devblogs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/visual-studio-for-mac-retirement- announcement/. Using Visual Studio Code for cross-platform development The most modern and lightweight code editor to choose from, and the only one from Microsoft that is cross-platform, is Visual Studio Code. It can run on all common operating systems, including Win- dows, macOS, and many varieties of Linux, including Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and Ubuntu. Visual Studio Code is a good choice for modern cross-platform development because it has an extensive and growing set of extensions to support many languages beyond C#. Being cross-platform and lightweight, it can be installed on all platforms that your apps will be de- ployed to for quick bug fixes and so on. Choosing Visual Studio Code means a developer can use a cross-platform code editor to develop cross-platform apps. Visual Studio Code has strong support for web development, although it currently has weak support for mobile and desktop development. Visual Studio Code is supported on ARM processors, so you can develop on Apple Silicon computers and Raspberry Pi. Visual Studio Code is by far the most popular integrated development environment, with over 73% of professional developers selecting it in the Stack Overflow 2023 survey that you can read at the following link: https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2023/. Using GitHub Codespaces for development in the cloud GitHub Codespaces is a fully configured development environment based on Visual Studio Code that can be spun up in an environment hosted in the cloud and accessed through any web browser. It supports Git repos, extensions, and a built-in command-line interface so you can edit, run, and test from any device. More Information: You can learn more about GitHub Codespaces at the following link: https://github.com/features/codespaces. 