Chapter 2 65 Comparing programming languages to human languages The English language has more than 250,000 distinct words, so how does C# get away with only having about 100 keywords? Moreover, why is C# so difficult to learn if it has only 0.0416% of the number of words in the English language? One of the key differences between a human language and a programming language is that developers need to be able to define the new “words” with new meanings. Apart from the (about) 100 keywords in the C# language, this book will teach you about some of the hundreds of thousands of “words” that other developers have defined, but you will also learn how to define your own “words.” Programmers all over the world must learn English because most programming languages use English words such as “if” and “break.” There are programming languages that use other human languages, such as Arabic, but they are rare. If you are interested in learning more, this YouTube video shows a demonstration of an Arabic programming language: https://youtu.be/dkO8cdwf6v8. Changing the color scheme for C# syntax By default, Visual Studio 2022 and Visual Studio Code show C# keywords in blue to make them easier to differentiate from other code, which defaults to black. Both tools allow you to customize the color scheme. In Visual Studio 2022: 1. Navigate to Tools | Options. In the Options dialog box, in the Environment section, select Fonts and Colors, and then 2. select the display items that you would like to customize. You can also search for the section instead of browsing for it. In Visual Studio Code: 1. Navigate to File | Preferences | Theme | Color Theme. It is in the Code menu on macOS. 2. Select a color theme. For reference, I’ll use the Light+ (default light) color theme so that the screenshots look better in a printed book. In JetBrains Rider: 1. Navigate to File | Settings | Editor | Color Scheme. Help for writing correct code Plain text editors such as Notepad don’t help you write correct English. Likewise, Notepad won’t help you write the correct C# either. Microsoft Word can help you write English by highlighting spelling mistakes with red squiggles, with Word saying that “icecream” should be ice-cream or ice cream, and grammatical errors with blue squiggles, such as a sentence should have an uppercase first letter. 