Chapter 14 699 If the request includes the If-Modified-Since header, then the web service 304 Not can respond with this status code. The response body is empty because the Modified client should use its cached copy of the resource. The requested resource has been temporarily moved to the URL in the Location 307 Temporary header. The browser should make a new request using that URL. For example, Redirect this is what happens if you enable UseHttpsRedirection and a client makes an HTTP request. The request was invalid, for example, it used a path for a product using an 400 Bad Request integer ID where the ID value is missing. The request was valid and the resource was found, but the client did not supply 401 credentials or is not authorized to access that resource. Re-authenticating may Unauthorized enable access, for example, by adding or changing the Authorization request header. The request was valid and the resource was found, but the client is not 403 Forbidden authorized to access that resource. Re-authenticating will not fix the issue. The request was valid, but the resource was not found. The resource may be 404 Not Found found if the request is repeated later. To indicate that a resource will never be found, return 410 Gone. If the request has an Accept header that only lists media types that the web 406 Not service does not support. For example, if the client requests JSON but the web Acceptable service can only return XML. A website hosted in the USA might return this for requests coming from Europe 451 Unavailable to avoid having to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). for Legal The number was chosen as a reference to the novel Fahrenheit 451, in which Reasons books are banned and burned. 500 Server The request was valid, but something went wrong on the server side while Error processing the request. Retrying again later might work. 503 Service The web service is busy and cannot handle the request. Trying again later might Unavailable work. Table 14.1: Common HTTP status code responses to the GET method Other common types of HTTP requests include POST, PUT, PATCH, or DELETE, which create, modify, or delete resources. To create a new resource, you might make a POST request with a body that contains the new resource, as shown in the following code: POST /path/to/resource Content-Length: 123 Content-Type: application/json 