Chapter 1 7 Visual Studio 2022 for general development Visual Studio 2022 for Windows can create most types of applications, including console apps, web- sites, web services, and desktop apps. Although you can use Visual Studio 2022 for Windows to write a cross-platform mobile app, you still need macOS and Xcode to compile it. It only runs on Windows 10 version 1909 or later, Home, Professional, Education, or Enterprise; or on Windows 11 version 21H2 or later, Home, Pro, Pro Education, Pro for Workstations, Enterprise, or Education. Windows Server 2016 and later are also supported. 32-bit operating systems and Windows S mode are not supported. Warning! Visual Studio 2022 for Mac does not officially support .NET 8 and it will reach end-of-life in August 2024. If you have been using Visual Studio 2022 for Mac then you should switch to Visual Studio Code for Mac, JetBrains Rider for Mac, or use Visual Studio 2022 for Windows in a virtual machine on your local computer or in the cloud using a tech- nology like Microsoft Dev Box. The retirement announcement can be read here: https:// devblogs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/visual-studio-for-mac-retirement- announcement/. What I used To write and test the code for this book, I used the following hardware and software: • Visual Studio 2022 for Windows on: • Windows 11 on an HP Spectre (Intel) laptop • Visual Studio Code on: • macOS on an Apple Silicon Mac mini (M1) desktop • Windows 11 on an HP Spectre (Intel) laptop • JetBrains Rider on: • macOS on an Apple Silicon Mac mini (M1) desktop • Windows 11 on an HP Spectre (Intel) laptop I hope that you have access to a variety of hardware and software too, because seeing the differences in platforms deepens your understanding of development challenges, although any one of the above combinations is enough to learn the fundamentals of C# and .NET and how to build practical apps and websites. You can learn how to write code with C# and .NET using a Raspberry Pi 400 with Ubuntu Desktop 64-bit by reading an extra article that I wrote at the following link: https:// github.com/markjprice/cs12dotnet8/tree/main/docs/raspberry-pi-ubuntu64. 