Preface xiv What this book covers Chapter 1, Hello, C#! Welcome, .NET!, is about setting up your development environment to use either Visual Studio 2022 or Visual Studio Code with C# Dev Kit. Then you will learn how to use them to cre- ate the simplest application possible with C# and .NET. For simplified console apps, you will see the use of the top-level program feature introduced in C# 9, which is then used by default in the project templates for C# 10 onwards. You will also learn about some good places to look for help, including AI tools like ChatGPT and GitHub Copilot, and ways to contact me to get help with an issue or give me feedback to improve the book today through its GitHub repository and in future print editions. Chapter 2, Speaking C#, introduces the versions of C# and has tables showing which version introduced new features in an online section. I will explain the grammar and vocabulary that you will use every day to write the source code for your applications. In particular, you will learn how to declare and work with variables of different types. Chapter 3, Controlling Flow, Converting Types, and Handling Exceptions, covers using operators to per- form simple actions on variables, including comparisons, writing code that makes decisions, pattern matching, repeating a block of statements, and converting between types. This chapter also covers writing code defensively to handle exceptions when they inevitably occur, including using guard clauses like ThrowIfLessThan on the ArgumentOutOfRangeException class introduced with .NET 8. Chapter 4, Writing, Debugging, and Testing Functions, is about following the Don’t Repeat Yourself (DRY) principle by writing reusable functions using both imperative and functional implementation styles. You will also learn how to use debugging tools to track down and remove bugs, use Hot Reload to make changes while your app is running, monitor your code while it executes to diagnose problems, and rigorously test your code to remove bugs, ensuring stability and reliability before it gets deployed into production. Chapter 5, Building Your Own Types with Object-Oriented Programming, discusses all the different cat- egories of members that a type like a class can have, including fields to store data and methods to perform actions. You will use Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts, such as aggregation and encapsulation, and how to manage namespaces for types, including the ability to alias any type introduced with C# 12. You will learn language features such as tuple syntax support and out variables, local functions, and default literals and inferred tuple names. You will also learn how to define and record keyword, init-only properties, and with expressions, work with immutable types using the introduced in C# 9. Finally, we look at how C# 11 introduced the required keyword to help avoid the overuse of constructors to control initialization, and how C# 12 introduced primary constructors for non-record types. Chapter 6, Implementing Interfaces and Inheriting Classes, explains deriving new types from existing ones using OOP. You will learn how to define operators, delegates, and events, how to implement interfaces about base and derived classes, how to override a member of a type, how to use polymorphism, how to create extension methods, how to cast between classes in an inheritance hierarchy, and about the big changes in C# 8 with the introduction of nullable reference types, along with the switch to make this the default in C# 10 and later. In an optional online-only section, you can learn how analyzers can help you write better code. 