Chapter 12 565 9. Switch back to the tab with the update mutation, change the unit price to 7.99, and click Run. Then, switch back to the tab with the subscription, and note that it receives that update notification too. 9.99, and click Run. 10. Switch back to the tab with the update mutation, change the unit price to Then, switch back to the tab with the subscription, and note that it has not been sent any no- tifications because the unit price was increased, not reduced. 11. Close the browser, and shut down the web server. Practicing and exploring Test your knowledge and understanding by answering some questions, getting some hands-on practice, and exploring this chapter’s topics with deeper research. Exercise 12.1 – Test your knowledge Answer the following questions: 1. What transport protocol does a GraphQL service use? 2. What media type does GraphQL use for its queries? 3. How can you parameterize GraphQL queries? What are the benefits of using Strawberry Shake over a regular HTTP client for GraphQL queries? 4. 5. How might you insert a new product into the Northwind database? Exercise 12.2 – Explore topics Use the links on the following page to learn more details about the topics covered in this chapter: https://github.com/markjprice/apps-services-net8/blob/main/docs/book-links.md#chapter- 12---combining-data-sources-using-graphql Exercise 12.3 – Practice building .NET clients In HomeController.cs, add an action method named Categories , and implement it to query the categories field with a variable for the id. On the page, allow the visitor to submit an id, and note the category information and a list of its products. Summary In this chapter, you learned about: • Some of the concepts of GraphQL. Query class with fields that represent entities that can be queried. • How to build a • How to use the Banana Cake Pop tool to explore a GraphQL service schema. • How to use the REST Client extension to POST to a GraphQL service. • How to create a .NET client for a GraphQL service. • How to implement GraphQL mutations. • How to implement GraphQL subscriptions. 