Speaking C# 74 Why does the System.Runtime assembly contain zero types? This assembly is special because it contains only type-forwarders rather than actual types. A type-forwarder represents a type that has been implemented outside of .NET or for some other advanced reason. 5. Add statements to the top of the file (after importing the System.Reflection namespace) to declare some variables, as shown in the following code: // Declare some unused variables using types in // additional assemblies to make them load too. System.Data.DataSet ds = new(); HttpClient client = new(); 6. Run the console app again and view the results, which should look like the following outputs: 0 types with 0 methods in System.Runtime assembly. 406 types with 7,139 methods in System.Data.Common assembly. 425 types with 4,681 methods in System.Net.Http assembly. 41 types with 639 methods in System.Console assembly. 112 types with 1,190 methods in System.Linq assembly. Now, you have a better sense of why learning C# is a challenge – because there are so many types and methods to learn. Methods are only one category of a member that a type can have, and you and other programmers are constantly defining new types and members! Example of asking ChatGPT to explain code The code we wrote in the Vocabulary project is a good example of when you might want to ask ChatGPT to explain something. If you enter a prompt of “Explain the following code:” followed by the code, here’s what it responded with at the time of writing in July 2023: “This C# code performs an analysis of the assemblies (essentially libraries or modules) referenced by the current application. It tallies up the total number of types and methods in each referenced assembly. Let’s break down the code in more detail: 1. System.Reflection namespace is used to work with assemblies, modules, types, methods, and so on, at runtime. The System.Data.DataSet and HttpClient instances are declared but not used. The com- 2. ment implies that these are declared to ensure their respective assemblies are loaded for the subsequent analysis. Creating instances of classes from certain assemblies can cause those assemblies to be loaded into memory. Assembly.GetEntryAssembly() gets the assembly that is the entry point of the application. 3. myApp is null (meaning there’s no entry assembly, which should be impossible in a normally 4. If running .NET app), the application exits. 