Chapter 3 89 Calls to HasData take effect either during a data migration executed by the dotnet ef database update command or when you call the Database.EnsureCreated method. Our model will map to an existing database that is already populated with data, so we will not need to use this technique in our code. Defining the Northwind database model A Northwind class will be used to represent the database. To use EF Core, the class must inherit from DbContext. This class understands how to communicate with databases and dynamically generate SQL statements to query and manipulate data. Your DbContext-derived class should have an overridden method named OnConfiguring, which will set the database connection string. Inside your DbContext-derived class, you must define at least one property of the DbSet<T> type. These properties represent the tables. To tell EF Core what columns each table has, the DbSet<T> properties use generics to specify a class that represents a row in the table. That entity model class has properties that represent its columns. The DbContext-derived class can optionally have an overridden method named OnModelCreating. This is where you can write Fluent API statements as an alternative to decorating your entity classes with attributes. This can enhance the clarity and maintainability of the model configuration because all of it could be in one place instead of scattered throughout your code base. You can also mix and match both techniques, but then you’d lose this primary benefit. If you did not create the Northwind database, or if you deleted it, then you will need to create it now. Instructions are in Chapter 2, Managing Relational Data Using SQL Server. Let’s build the model for the Northwind database in a console app: 1. Use your preferred code editor to create a console app project, as defined in the following list: • Project template: Console App / console. Chapter03. • Solution file and folder: Northwind.Console.EFCore. • Project file and folder: • Do not use top-level statements: Cleared. • Enable native AOT publish: Cleared. Northwind.Console.EFCore project, add package references to the EF Core data pro- 2. In the vider for SQL Server, and globally and statically import the System.Console class, as shown highlighted in the following markup: <ItemGroup> <PackageReference 