Chapter 14 637 10. Close Chrome and shut down the web server. Now that you’ve been reminded of how to build a basic MVC website that displays data, let’s look at an important intermediate-level topic that is often overlooked when building websites for the World Wide Web: supporting all the world’s languages and cultures. Localizing and globalizing with ASP.NET Core In Chapter 7, Handling Dates, Times, and Internationalization, you learned about working with dates, times, and time zones, and how to globalize and localize a .NET codebase. In this section, we will look specifically at how to localize a website that uses ASP.NET Core. As well as localizing string values into languages like French and Spanish using IStringLocalizer, you can localize HTML content using IHtmlLocalizer, but this should be used with care. Usually, HTML markup should be the same for all locales. For views, you can use IViewLocalizer. Request localization means that the browser can request what culture it prefers in the following ways: • Add a query string parameter, for example, ?culture=en-US&ui-culture=en-US. c=en-US|uic=en-US. • Send a cookie with the request, for example, Set an HTTP header, for example, Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.9,fr- • FR;q=0.8,fr;q=0.7,en-GB;q=0.6. To enable request localization, call the UseRequestLocalization method when you configure the HTTP request pipeline in Program.cs. This tells ASP.NET Core to look for these requests and to au- tomatically change the current thread that is processing that request (and only that request, no one else’s requests) to use the appropriate culture to format data and load resource values. Let’s create some resource files to localize the web user interface into American English, British En- glish, and French, and then globalize the data like dates and currency values: 1. In the Northwind.Mvc project, add a new folder named Resources. This is the default name *.resx resource files. for the folder that localizer services look in for Resources, add a new folder named Views. 2. In Views, add a new folder named Home. 3. In Creating resource files How you create resource files (*.resx) depends on your code editor. To save time, you can just copy the .resx files from the GitHub repository found in the folder at the following link: https://github.com/markjprice/apps-services-net8/ tree/main/code/Chapter14/Northwind.Mvc/Resources/Views/Home. 