Preface xvi Online Chapter, Building Websites Using the Model-View-Controller Pattern, is about learning how to build large, complex websites in a way that is easy to unit-test and manage with teams of programmers, using ASP.NET Core MVC. You will learn about startup configuration, authentication, routes, models, views, and controllers. You will learn about a feature eagerly anticipated by the .NET community called output caching that was finally implemented in ASP.NET Core 7. You can read this at https:// packt.link/WKg6b Chapter 14, Building and Consuming Web Services, explains building backend REST architecture web services using the ASP.NET Core Web API. We will cover how to document and test them using OpenAPI. Then we will see how to properly consume them using factory-instantiated HTTP clients. In two optional online-only sections, you will be introduced to advanced features like health checks, adding security HTTP headers, and minimal APIs, and how they can use native ahead-of-time (AOT) compi- lation during the publishing process to improve startup time and memory footprint. Chapter 15, Building User Interfaces Using Blazor, introduces how to build web user interface compo- nents using Blazor that can be executed either on the server side or inside the web browser. You will see how to build components that are easy to switch between the client and the server, with the new hosting model introduced with .NET 8. Epilogue describes your options for further study about C# and .NET. Appendix, Answers to the Test Your Knowledge Questions, has the answers to the test questions at the end of each chapter. You can read the appendix at the following link: https://packt.link/NTPzz. What you need for this book You can develop and deploy C# and .NET apps using Visual Studio Code and the command-line tools on most operating systems, including Windows, macOS, and many varieties of Linux. An operating system that supports Visual Studio Code and an internet connection is all you need to follow along with this book. If you prefer alternatives, then the choice is yours whether to use Visual Studio 2022, or a third-party tool like JetBrains Rider. Downloading the color images of this book We also provide you with a PDF file that has color images of the screenshots and diagrams used in this book. The color images will help you better understand the changes in the output. You can download this file from https://packt.link/gbp/9781837635870. 