Packaging and Distributing .NET Types 394 Explicitly setting invariant globalization to true is new in the Console App project template with .NET 8. It is designed to make a console app non-culture-specific so it can be deployed anywhere in the world and have the same behavior. If you set this property to false, or if the element is missing, then the console app will default to the culture of the current computer it is hosted on. You can read more about invariant globalization mode at the following link: https://github. com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/docs/design/features/globalization- invariant-mode.md. 3. Modify the project file to statically import the System.Console class in all C# files. Program.cs, delete any existing statements, and then add statements to output the current 4. In culture and OS version, as shown in the following code: using System.Globalization; // To use CultureInfo. WriteLine("This is an ahead-of-time (AOT) compiled console app."); WriteLine("Current culture: {0}", CultureInfo.CurrentCulture. DisplayName); WriteLine("OS version: {0}", Environment.OSVersion); Write("Press any key to exit."); ReadKey(intercept: true); // Do not output the key that was pressed. 5. Run the console app project and note the culture is invariant, as shown in the following output: This is an ahead-of-time (AOT) compiled console app. Current culture: Invariant Language (Invariant Country) OS version: Microsoft Windows NT 10.0.22621.0 Warning! Actually, the console app is not being AOT compiled; it is still currently JIT-com- piled because we have not yet published it. Publishing a native AOT project A console app that functions correctly during development when the code is untrimmed and JIT-com- piled could still fail once you publish it using native AOT because then the code is trimmed and JIT-com- piled and, therefore, it is a different code with different behavior. You should, therefore, perform a publish before assuming your project will work. If your project does not produce any AOT warnings at publish time, you can then be confident that your service will work after publishing for AOT. 