Chapter 12 633 Commonly assigned local port numbers are 5000 for HTTP and 5001 for HTTPS. We will use a num- bering convention of 5<chapter>0 for HTTP and 5<chapter>1 for HTTPS. For example, for a website project we will create in Chapter 13, we will assign 5130 for HTTP and 5131 for HTTPS. We will therefore use the following project names and port numbers, as shown in Table 12.2: Name Ports Description N/A A class library project for common types like interfaces, Northwind.Common enums, classes, records, and structs, used across multiple projects. N/A A class library project for common EF Core entity models. Entity models are often used on both the server Northwind.EntityModels and client side, so it is best to separate dependencies on specific database providers. N/A A class library project for the EF Core database context Northwind.DataContext with dependencies on specific database providers. Northwind.UnitTests N/A An xUnit test project for the solution. http 5130, An ASP.NET Core project for a simple website that uses a Northwind.Web mixture of static HTML files and dynamic Razor Pages. https 5131 http 5140, An ASP.NET Core project for a complex website that Northwind.Mvc uses the MVC pattern and can be more easily unit tested. https 5141 http 5150, An ASP.NET Core project for a Web API aka HTTP service. A good choice for integrating with websites Northwind.WebApi https 5151 because it can use any JavaScript library or Blazor to interact with the service. http 5152 An ASP.NET Core project for a Minimal API aka HTTP service. Unlike Web API projects, these can be compiled Northwind.MinimalApi using native AOT for improved startup time and reduced memory footprint. http 5160, Northwind.Blazor An ASP.NET Core Blazor project. https 5161 Table 12.2: Example project names for various project types Building an entity model for use in the rest of the book Practical applications usually need to work with data in a relational database or another data store. In this section, we will define an entity data model for the Northwind database stored in SQL Server or SQLite. It will be used in most of the apps that we create in subsequent chapters. 