Introducing Apps and Services with .NET 18 4. On the Individual components tab, in the Code tools section, select the following: • Git for Windows 5. Click Install and wait for the installer to acquire the selected software and install it. 6. When the installation is complete, click Launch. The first time that you run Visual Studio, you will be prompted to sign in. If you have a Microsoft 7. account, you can use that account. If you don’t, then register for a new one at the following https://signup.live.com/. link: 8. The first time that you run Visual Studio, you will be prompted to configure your environment. For Development Settings, choose Visual C#. For the color theme, I chose Blue, but you can choose whatever tickles your fancy. If you want to customize your keyboard shortcuts, navigate to Tools | Options…, and then select 9. the Environment | Keyboard option. Visual Studio 2022 keyboard shortcuts In this book, I will avoid showing keyboard shortcuts since they are often customized. Where they are consistent across code editors and commonly used, I will try to show them. If you want to identify and customize your keyboard shortcuts, then you can, as shown at the following link: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/identifying-and-customizing- keyboard-shortcuts-in-visual-studio. Downloading and installing Visual Studio Code Visual Studio Code has rapidly improved over the past couple of years and has pleasantly surprised Microsoft with its popularity. If you are brave and like to live on the bleeding edge, then there is the Insiders edition, which is a daily build of the next version. Even if you plan to only use Visual Studio 2022 for development, I recommend that you download and install Visual Studio Code and try the coding tasks in this chapter using it, and then decide if you want to stick with just using Visual Studio 2022 for the rest of the book. Let’s now download and install Visual Studio Code, the .NET SDK, and the C# Dev Kit extension: 1. Download and install either the Stable build or the Insiders edition of Visual Studio Code from the following link: https://code.visualstudio.com/. More Information: If you need more help installing Visual Studio Code on any op- erating system, you can read the official setup guide at the following link: https:// code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/setup-overview. 2. Download and install the .NET SDK for version 8.0 from the following link: https://www. microsoft.com/net/download. 