Chapter 6 311 WriteLine($"{p.Name} is this angry: {p.AngerLevel}."); } } Good Practice: Microsoft’s convention for method names that handle events is ObjectName_EventName. In this project, sender will always be a Person instance, so the null checks are not necessary, and the event handler could be much sim- pler with just the WriteLine statement. However, it is important to know that these types of null checks make your code more robust in cases of event misuse. 4. In Program.cs, add a statement to assign the method to the delegate field, and then add state- ments to call the Poke method four times, as shown in the following code: // Assign the method to the Shout delegate. harry.Shout = Harry_Shout; // Call the Poke method that eventually raises the Shout event. harry.Poke(); harry.Poke(); harry.Poke(); harry.Poke(); 5. Run the PeopleApp project and view the result, and note that Harry says nothing the first two times he is poked, and only gets angry enough to shout once he’s been poked at least three times, as shown in the following output: Harry is this angry: 3. Harry is this angry: 4. Defining and handling events You’ve now seen how delegates implement the most important functionality of events: the ability to define a signature for a method that can be implemented by a completely different piece of code, calling that method and any others that are hooked up to the delegate field. But what about events? There is less to them than you might think. When assigning a method to a delegate field, you should not use the simple assignment operator as we did in the preceding example. Delegates are multicast, meaning that you can assign multiple delegates to a single delegate field. Instead of the = assignment, we could have used the += operator so that we could add more methods to the same delegate field. When the delegate is called, all the assigned methods are called, although you have no control over the order in which they are called. Do not use events to implement a queuing system to buy concert tickets; otherwise, the wrath of millions of Swifties will fall upon you. 