Preface xxvii Services Chapter 8, Building and Securing Web Services Using Minimal APIs, introduces the simplest way to build web services using ASP.NET Core Minimal APIs. This avoids the need for controller classes. You will learn how to improve startup time and resources using native AOT publish. You will then learn how to protect and secure a web service using rate limiting, CORS, and authentication and authorization. You will explore ways to test a web service using the new HTTP editor in Visual Studio 2022 and the REST Client extension for Visual Studio Code. An online-only section introduces building services that quickly expose data models using Open Data Protocol (OData). Chapter 9, Caching, Queuing, and Resilient Background Services, introduces service architecture design, adding features to services that improve scalability and reliability like caching and queuing, how to handle transient problems, and how to implement long-running services by implementing back- ground services. Chapter 10, Building Serverless Nanoservices Using Azure Functions, introduces you to Azure Functions, which can be configured to only require server-side resources while they execute. They execute when they are triggered by an activity like a message sent to a queue, a file uploaded to storage, or at a reg- ularly scheduled interval. Chapter 11, Broadcasting Real-Time Communication Using SignalR, introduces you to SignalR, a technol- ogy that enables a developer to create a service that can have multiple clients and broadcast messages to all of them or a subset of them live in real time, for example, notification systems and dashboards that need instantly up-to-date information like stock prices. Chapter 12, Combining Data Sources Using GraphQL, introduces building services that provide a simple single endpoint for exposing data from multiple sources to appear as a single combined source of data. You will use the ChilliCream GraphQL platform to implement the service, which includes Hot Chocolate. New in this edition is how to implement paging, filtering, sorting, and subscriptions. Chapter 13, Building Efficient Microservices Using gRPC, introduces building microservices using the efficient gRPC standard. You will learn about the .proto file format for defining service contracts and the Protobuf binary format for message serialization. You will also learn how to enable web browsers to call gRPC services using gRPC JSON transcoding. New to this edition is how to improve the startup and memory footprint of a gRPC service with native AOT publish, handling custom data types including non-supported types like decimal, and implementing interceptors and handling faults. Apps Chapter 14, Building Web User Interfaces Using ASP.NET Core, is about building web user interfaces with ASP.NET Core MVC. You will learn Razor syntax, tag helpers, and Bootstrap for quick user interface prototyping. 