Working with Data Using Entity Framework Core 534 The decimal type is not supported by the SQLite database provider for sorting and other operations. We can fix this by telling the model that decimal values can be treated as double values when using the SQLite database provider. This does not actually perform any conversion at runtime. Now that you have seen some examples of defining an entity model manually, let’s see a tool that can do some of the work for you. Setting up the dotnet-ef tool The .NET CLI tool named dotnet can be extended with capabilities useful for working with EF Core. It can perform design-time tasks like creating and applying migrations from an older model to a newer model and generating code for a model from an existing database. The dotnet-ef command-line tool is not automatically installed. You must install this package as either a global or local tool. If you have already installed an older version of the tool, then you should update it to the latest version: 1. At a command prompt or terminal, check if you have already installed dotnet-ef as a global tool, as shown in the following command: dotnet tool list --global 2. Check in the list if an older version of the tool has been installed, like the one for .NET 7, as shown in the following output: Package Id Version Commands ------------------------------------- dotnet-ef 7.0.0 dotnet-ef 3. If an old version is already installed, then update the tool, as shown in the following command: dotnet tool update --global dotnet-ef 4. If it is not already installed, then install the latest version, as shown in the following command: dotnet tool install --global dotnet-ef If necessary, follow any OS-specific instructions to add the dotnet tools directory to your PATH en- vironment variable, as described in the output of installing the dotnet-ef tool. By default, the latest GA release of .NET will be used to install the tool. To explicitly set a version, for example, to use a preview, add the --version switch. For example, to update to the latest .NET 9 preview version available from February 2024 to October 2024, use the following command with a version wildcard: dotnet tool update --global dotnet-ef --version 9.0-* Once the .NET 9 GA release happens in November 2024, you can just use the command without the --version switch to upgrade. 