Chapter 6 245 11. Run the console app and note the order is now valid, as shown in the following output: IsValid: True Validating data with ASP.NET Core For automatic data validation with ASP.NET Core, FluentValidation supports .NET Core 3.1 and later. More Information: Learn more details at the following link: https://cecilphillip. com/fluent-validation-rules-with-asp-net-core/. Generating PDFs One of the most common questions I get when teaching C# and .NET is, “What open-source library is available to generate PDF files?” There are many licensed libraries for generating PDF files, but over the years, it has been difficult to find cross-platform open-source ones. QuestPDF says, “If you are consuming the QuestPDF library as a Direct Package Dependency for usage in a Closed Source software in the capacity of a for-profit company/individual with more than 1M USD annual gross revenue, you must purchase the QuestPDF Professional or Enterprise License, depending on the number of software developers. Please refer to the QuestPDF License and Pricing webpage for more details. (https:// )” www.questpdf.com/pricing.html The older 2022.12.X release will always be available under the MIT license, free for commercial usage. If you want to support library development, please consider purchasing the Professional License for version 2023.1.X or later. Using QuestPDF on Apple silicon Macs QuestPDF uses SkiaSharp, which has implementations for Windows, Mac, and Linux operating systems. The console app that you create in this section to generate PDFs is therefore cross-platform. But on an Apple silicon Mac, like my Mac mini M1, I had to install the x64 version of .NET SDK and start the dotnet new -a x64. This tells the .NET SDK to use the x64 architecture, otherwise the project using SkiaSharp libraries give an error because they have not yet been built to target ARM64. Creating class libraries to generate PDF documents Let’s see an example of QuestPDF in action. You will create three projects: • A class library for a model that represents a catalog of product categories with names and images. • A class library for the document template. • A console app to perform a live generation of a PDF file. 