Introducing Apps and Services with .NET 28 The following is less relevant but might be useful: • Your operating system, for example, Windows 11 64-bit, or macOS Big Sur version 11.2.3. • Your hardware, for example, Intel, Apple silicon, or ARM CPU. I want all my readers to be successful with my book, so if I can help you (and others) without too much trouble, then I will gladly do so. Giving me feedback If you’d like to give me more general feedback about the book, then you can email me at markjprice@ gmail.com. My publisher, Packt, has set up Discord channels for readers to interact with authors and other readers. You are welcome to join us at the following link: https://packt.link/apps_and_ . services_dotnet8 I love to hear from my readers about what they like about my books, as well as suggestions for im- provements and how they are working with C# and .NET, so don’t be shy. Please get in touch! Thank you in advance for your thoughtful and constructive feedback. Downloading solution code from the GitHub repository I use GitHub to store solutions to all the hands-on, step-by-step coding examples throughout chapters and the practical exercises that are featured at the end of each chapter. You will find the repository at the following link: https://github.com/markjprice/apps-services-net8. If you just want to download all the solution files without using Git, click the green Code button and then select Download ZIP. I recommend that you add the preceding link to your favorites or bookmarks. Good Practice: It is best to clone or download the code solutions to a short folder path, like C:\cs12dotnet8\ or C:\book\, to avoid build-generated files exceeding the maximum path length. You should also avoid special characters like #. For example, do not use a folder name like C:\C# projects\. That folder name might work for a simple console app project but once you start adding features that automatically generate code you are likely to have strange issues. Keep your folder names short and simple. Where to go for help This section is all about how to find quality information about programming on the web. Reading documentation on Microsoft Learn The definitive resource for getting help with Microsoft developer tools and platforms is in the tech- nical documentation on Microsoft Learn, and you can find it at the following link: https://learn. . microsoft.com/en-us/docs 