Chapter 4 143 5. On the Which API best suits your workload? page, in the Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL box, note the description, Azure Cosmos DB’s core, or native API for working with documents. Supports fast, flexible development with familiar SQL query language and client libraries for .NET, JavaScript, Python, and Java., and then click the Create button. 6. On the Basics tab: Pay-As-You-Go. • Select your Subscription. Mine is named apps-services-book. • Select a Resource Group or create a new one. I used the name apps-services-book. • Enter an Azure Cosmos DB Account Name. I used • Select a Location. I chose (Europe) UK South as it is the closest to me. • Set Capacity mode to Provisioned throughput. • Set Apply Free Tier Discount to Do not apply. Good Practice: Only apply the free tier discount now if you want this account to be the only account within your subscription to be on the free tier. You might be better off saving this discount for another account that you might use for a real project, rather than a temporary learning account while reading this book. With Azure Cosmos DB free tier, you will get the first 1,000 RU/s and 25 GB of storage for free in an account. You can only enable a free tier on one account per subscription. Microsoft estimates this has a value of $64/month. • Select the Limit total account throughput check box. Click the Next: Global Distribution button and review the options but leave them at their 7. defaults. 8. Click the Next: Networking button and review the options but leave them at their defaults. 9. Click the Next: Backup Policy button and review the options but leave them at their defaults. 10. Click the Next: Encryption button and review the options but leave them at their defaults. 11. Click the Review + create button. 12. Note the Validation Success message, review the summary, and then click the Create button. 13. Wait for the deployment to complete. This will take a few minutes. 14. Click the Go to resource button. Note that you are probably directed to the Quick Start page with steps to follow to create a container and so on, depending on if this is the first time that you have created an Azure Cosmos DB account. 