Writing, Debugging, and Testing Functions 194 • Restart/Ctrl or Cmd + Shift + F5 (circular arrow): This button will stop and then immediately restart the program with the debugger attached again. Show Next Statement: This button will move the current cursor to the next statement that • will execute. • Step Into/F11, Step Over/F10, and Step Out/Shift + F11 (blue arrows over dots): These buttons step through the code statements in various ways, as you will see in a moment. Show Threads in Source: This button allows you to examine and work with threads in the • application that you’re debugging. Debugging windows While debugging, both Visual Studio 2022 and Visual Studio Code show extra windows that allow you to monitor useful information, such as variables, while you step through your code. The most useful windows are described in the following list: • VARIABLES, including Locals, which shows the name, value, and type of any local variables automatically. Keep an eye on this window while you step through your code. WATCH, or Watch 1, which shows the value of variables and expressions that you manually enter. • • CALL STACK, which shows the stack of function calls. • BREAKPOINTS, which shows all your breakpoints and allows finer control over them. When in break mode, there is also a useful window at the bottom of the edit area: DEBUG CONSOLE or Immediate Window enables live interaction with your code. You can • interrogate the program state, for example, by entering the name of a variable. For example, 1+2 and pressing Enter. you can ask a question such as “What is 1+2?” by typing Stepping through code Let’s explore some ways to step through the code using either Visual Studio 2022 or Visual Studio Code: The menu commands for debugging are on the Debug menu in Visual Studio 2022 or the Run menu in Visual Studio Code and JetBrains Rider. 1. Navigate to Run or Debug | Step Into, click on the Step Into button in the toolbar, or press F11. The yellow highlight steps forward one line. 2. Navigate to Run or Debug | Step Over, click on the Step Over button in the toolbar, or press F10. The yellow highlight steps forward one line. At the moment, you can see that there is no difference between using Step Into or Step Over because we are executing single statements. Add method. 3. You should now be on the line that calls the 