Epilogue 744 • Aspire Starter and Empty project templates: These will get you started with a working solution to try out Aspire features. The starter solution includes several projects: a Blazor app front- end for a dashboard to monitor all the services and apps you build, a back-end web API, a shared project for setting defaults that will apply to all projects, and an Aspire host to manage everything. • Aspire Orchestration: This provides features to run and connect complex multi-project appli- cations and their dependencies. Custom extension methods are written for you to configure all the components in your projects following best practices, but you can change them if you have special requirements. If you want to learn more about .NET Aspire, you can read the documentation at the following link: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/aspire/ I plan to write a chapter about .NET Aspire in the third book of my .NET 8 trilogy, Tools and Skills for .NET 8 Pros, which we plan to publish in the first half of 2024. Introducing the Survey Project Challenge To help us learn all the different technologies that .NET developers need to know these days, it would be great to attempt to implement a project that needs a mix of technologies and skills. It should be as real as possible, be cool, fun, and practical, and have already been implemented by others with public products that we can be inspired by. The Survey Project Challenge is an optional complete project with a common set of problems that will give you a real-world set of projects to build. You can read more about it at the following link: https://github.com/markjprice/apps-services-net8/blob/main/docs/ch17-survey-project.md Third edition coming in December 2025 I have already started work on identifying areas for improvement for the next edition, which we plan to publish about a month after the general availability (GA) release of .NET 10 in November 2025. While I do not expect major new features at the level of the unification of the Blazor hosting models, I do expect .NET 9 and .NET 10 to make worthwhile improvements to all aspects of .NET. If you have suggestions for topics that you would like to see covered or expanded upon, or you spot mistakes that need fixing in the text or code, then please find me on the Discord channel for this book for a live interaction or let me know the details via the GitHub repository for this book, found at the following link: https://github.com/markjprice/apps-services-net8 Next steps on your C# and .NET learning journey There is never enough space in a book written for print to include everything one might want. For subjects that you want to learn more about, I hope that the notes, good practice tips, and links in the GitHub repository point you in the right direction: https://github.com/markjprice/apps-services-net8/blob/main/docs/book-links.md 