Chapter 1 27 It is important to note the lack of namespace declarations. Both the automatically generated Program class and the explicitly defined Program class are in the default null namespace. If you define your partial Program class in a namespace, then it will be in a different namespace and therefore not partial Program class. merge with the auto-generated Good Practice: Do not define a namespace for any partial Program classes that you create so that they will be defined in the default null namespace. Optionally, all the static methods in the Program class could be explicitly declared as private but this is the default anyway. Since all the functions will be called within the Program class itself the access modifier is not important. Making good use of the GitHub repository for this book Git is a commonly used source code management system. GitHub is a company, website, and desktop application that makes it easier to manage Git. Microsoft purchased GitHub in 2018, so it will continue to be closely integrated with Microsoft tools. I created a GitHub repository for this book, and I use it for the following: • To store the solution code for the book, which will be maintained after the print publication date. • To provide extra materials that extend the book, like errata fixes, small improvements, lists of useful links, and longer articles that cannot fit in the printed book. • To provide a place for readers to get in touch with me if they have issues with the book. Raising issues with the book If you get stuck following any of the instructions in this book, or if you spot a mistake in the text or the code in the solutions, please raise an issue in the GitHub repository: 1. Use your favorite browser to navigate to the following link: https://github.com/markjprice/ apps-services-net8/issues. 2. Click New Issue. 3. Enter as much detail as possible that will help me to diagnose the issue. For example: • The specific section title, page number, and step number. • Your code editor, for example, Visual Studio 2022, Visual Studio Code, or something else, including the version number. • As much of your code and configuration that you feel is relevant and necessary. • A description of the expected behavior and the behavior experienced. • Screenshots (you can drag and drop image files into the issue box). 