Chapter 14 701 Creating an ASP.NET Core Web API project We will build a web service that provides a way to work with data in the Northwind database using ASP.NET Core so that the data can be used by any client application on any platform that can make HTTP requests and receive HTTP responses. Traditionally, you use the ASP.NET Core Web API / dotnet new webapi project template. This allows the creation of a web service implemented using either controllers like MVC or the newer Minimal APIs. Those are what we will use in this chapter because they provide maximum flexibility. Warning! With .NET 6 and .NET 7, the dotnet new webapi command creates a service implemented using controllers. To implement the service using Minimal APIs, you need to add the --use-minimal-apis switch to the command. Using .NET 8, the dotnet new webapi command creates a service implemented using Minimal APIs. To implement the service using controllers, you need to add the --use-controllers switch. .NET 8 introduces the ASP.NET Core Web API (native AOT) / dotnet new webapiaot project template, which only uses Minimal APIs and supports native AOT publishing. If you would like to see this in action, then there is an optional online-only section that you can complete at the end of this chapter. For the print chapter, we will build on your experience with MVC by creating a Web API service using controllers. Let’s go: 1. Use your preferred code editor to open the PracticalApps solution and then add a new project, as defined in the following list: • Project template: ASP.NET Core Web API / webapi --use-controllers • Solution file and folder: PracticalApps • Project file and folder: Northwind.WebApi 2. If you are using Visual Studio 2022, then confirm the following defaults have been chosen: • Authentication type: None • Configure for HTTPS: Selected • Enable Docker: Cleared • Enable OpenAPI support: Selected • Do not use top-level statements: Cleared • Use controllers: Selected Make sure to select the Use controllers check box or your code will look very different! 