Chapter 7 369 Checking your .NET SDKs for updates Microsoft introduced a command with .NET 6 to check the versions of .NET SDKs and runtimes that you have installed and warn you if any need updating. For example, enter the following command: dotnet sdk check You will see results, including the status of available updates, as shown in the following partial output: .NET SDKs: Version Status ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 5.0.214 .NET 5.0 is out of support. 6.0.101 Patch 6.0.119 is available. 6.0.314 Up to date. 7.0.304 Patch 7.0.305 is available. 8.0.100 Up to date. Good Practice: To maintain support from Microsoft, you must keep your .NET SDKs and .NET runtimes up to date with the latest patches. Understanding .NET components .NET is made up of several pieces, which are shown in the following list: • Language compilers: These turn your source code written with languages such as C#, F#, and Visual Basic into intermediate language (IL) code stored in assemblies. With C# 6 and later, Microsoft switched to an open-source rewritten compiler known as Roslyn, which is also used by Visual Basic. Common Language Runtime (CoreCLR): This runtime loads assemblies, compiles the IL code • stored in them into native code instructions for your computer’s CPU, and executes the code within an environment that manages resources such as threads and memory. • Base Class Libraries (BCL or CoreFX): These are prebuilt assemblies of types packaged and distributed using NuGet for performing common tasks when building applications. You can use them to quickly build anything you want, rather like combining LEGO™ pieces. Assemblies, NuGet packages, and namespaces An assembly is where a type is stored in the filesystem. Assemblies are a mechanism for deploying code. For example, the System.Data.dll assembly contains types for managing data. To use types in other assemblies, they must be referenced. Assemblies can be static (pre-created) or dynamic (generated at runtime). Dynamic assemblies are an advanced feature that we will not cover in this book. Assemblies can be compiled into a single file as a DLL (class library) or an EXE (console app). 