Introducing Apps and Services with .NET 4 What you will learn in this book After this first chapter, this book can be divided into four parts: 1. Managing data: How to store and manage data locally and in the cloud with SQL Server and Azure Cosmos DB. Later chapters use the SQL Server database and entity models that you will create at the end of Chapter 3, Building Entity Models for SQL Server Using EF Core. The chapter about Cosmos DB uses the SQL API, and there is an online-only chapter about Gremlin, which is a graph API. Specialized libraries: Dates, times, and internationalization; improving performance with 2. threads and tasks; and third-party libraries for image handling, data validation rules, and so on. These chapters can be treated like a cookbook of recipes. If you are not interested in any topic, you can skip it, and you can read them in any order. 3. Service technologies: How to build and secure services with ASP.NET Core Web API Minimal APIs, GraphQL, gRPC, SignalR, and Azure Functions. To improve service scalability and reli- ability we cover queues, caching, and event scheduling. There is also an online-only chapter about OData services. User interface technologies: How to build user interfaces with ASP.NET Core, Blazor, and 4. .NET MAUI. My learning philosophy Most people learn complex topics best by imitation and repetition rather than reading a detailed explanation of the theory; therefore, I will not overload you with detailed explanations of every step throughout this book. The idea is to get you to write some code and see it run. You don’t need to know all the nitty-gritty details immediately. That will be something that comes with time as you build your own apps and go beyond what any book can teach you. Fixing my mistakes In the words of Samuel Johnson, author of the English dictionary in 1755, I have committed “a few wild blunders, and risible absurdities, from which no work of such multiplicity is free.” I take sole responsibility for these and hope you appreciate the challenge of my attempt to lash the wind by writing this book about rapidly evolving technologies like C# and .NET, and the apps and services that you can build with them. If you have an issue with something in this book, then please contact me before resorting to a negative review on Amazon. Authors cannot respond to Amazon reviews so I cannot contact you to resolve the problem. I want to help you to get the best from my book, and I want to listen to your feedback and do better in the next edition. Please email me (my email address can be found in the GitHub repository for the book), chat with me in the Discord channel for the book (https://packt.link/apps_and_services_dotnet8), or raise an issue at the following link: https://github.com/markjprice/apps-services- net8/issues. 