Hello, C#! Welcome, .NET! 6 At the end of this chapter, you will have the opportunity to complete an optional exercise to practice using Polyglot Notebooks. Visual Studio Code for cross-platform development The most modern and lightweight code editor to choose from, and the only one from Microsoft that is cross-platform, is Visual Studio Code. It can run on all common operating systems, including Win- dows, macOS, and many varieties of Linux, including Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and Ubuntu. Visual Studio Code is a good choice for modern cross-platform development because it has an extensive and growing set of extensions to support many languages beyond C#. The most important extension for C# and .NET developers is the C# Dev Kit that was released in preview in June 2023 because it turns Visual Studio Code from a general-purpose code editor into a tool optimized for C# and .NET developers. More Information: You can read about the C# Dev Kit extension in the official announce- ment at the following link: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/ announcing-csharp-dev-kit-for-visual-studio-code/. Being cross-platform and lightweight, Visual Studio Code and its extensions can be installed on all platforms that your apps will be deployed to for quick bug fixes and so on. Choosing Visual Studio Code means a developer can use a cross-platform code editor to develop cross-platform apps. Visual Studio Code is supported on ARM processors so that you can develop on Apple Silicon computers and Raspberry Pi computers. Visual Studio Code has strong support for web development, although it currently has weak support for mobile and desktop development. Visual Studio Code is by far the most popular code editor or IDE, with over 73% of professional devel- opers selecting it in the Stack Overflow 2023 survey that you can read at the following link: https:// . survey.stackoverflow.co/2023/ GitHub Codespaces for development in the cloud GitHub Codespaces is a fully configured development environment based on Visual Studio Code that can be spun up in an environment hosted in the cloud and accessed through any web browser. It supports Git repos, extensions, and a built-in command-line interface so you can edit, run, and test from any device. More Information: You can learn more about GitHub Codespaces at the following link: https://github.com/features/codespaces. 