Introducing Apps and Services with .NET 20 SQL Server (mssql) for Visual Studio Code For developing SQL Server, Azure SQL Database, and SQL data warehouses everywhere with a rich set of ms-mssql.mssql functionalities. REST Client Send an HTTP request and view the response directly in Visual Studio Code. humao.rest-client ilspy-vscode Decompile MSIL assemblies – support for modern .NET, .NET Framework, .NET Core, and .NET Standard. icsharpcode.ilspy-vscode vscode-proto3 Syntax highlighting, syntax validation, code snippets, code completion, code formatting, brace matching, and zxh404.vscode-proto3 line and block commenting. Azure Functions for Visual Studio Code Create, debug, manage, and deploy serverless apps directly from VS Code. It has dependencies on ms-azuretools.vscode- the Azure Account (ms-vscode.azure-account) azurefunctions and Azure Resources (ms-azuretools.vscode- azureresourcegroups) extensions. Table 1.4: Visual Studio Code extensions used in this book Managing Visual Studio Code extensions at the command prompt You can install a Visual Studio Code extension at the command prompt or terminal, as shown in Table 1.5: Command Description code --list-extensions List installed extensions. code --install-extension <extension-id> Install the specified extension. code --uninstall-extension <extension-id> Uninstall the specified extension. Table 1.5: Working with extensions at the command prompt For example, to install the C# Dev Kit extension, enter the following at the command prompt: code --install-extension ms-dotnettools.csdevkit I have created PowerShell scripts to install and uninstall the Visual Studio Code extensions in the preceding table. You can find them at the following link: https://github.com/ markjprice/apps-services-net8/tree/main/scripts/extension-scripts. Understanding Microsoft Visual Studio Code versions Microsoft releases a new feature version of Visual Studio Code (almost) every month and bug-fix ver- sions more frequently. For example: • Version 1.78.0, April 2023 feature release • Version 1.78.1, April 2023 bug fix release 