Chapter 7 257 More Information: There is a table of common culture codes at the following link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Language_localisation#Language_ tags_and_codes 9. Run the code, and note that the output is localized to the specified culture. Reset the console configuration back to the default so that it uses US English culture, as shown 10. in the following code: ConfigureConsole(); // Defaults to en-US culture. Formatting date and time values You have just seen that dates and times have default formats based on the current culture. You can take complete control of date and time formatting using custom format code, as shown in Table 7.2: Format code Description Date part separator. Varies by culture; for example, en-US uses /, but fr-FR uses - / (dash). Escape character. Useful if you want to use a special format code as a literal \ character; for example, h \h m \m would format a time of 9:30 am as 9 h 30 m. Time part separator. Varies by culture; for example, en-US uses :, but fr-FR uses . : (dot). d, dd The day of the month, from 1 to 31, or with a leading zero from 01 through 31. The abbreviated or full name of the day of the week, for example, Mon or Monday, ddd, dddd localized for the current culture. f, ff, fff The tenths of a second, hundredths of a second, or milliseconds. g The period or era, for example, A.D. h, hh The hour, using a 12-hour clock from 1 to 12, or from 01 to 12. H, HH The hour, using a 24-hour clock from 0 to 23, or from 01 to 23. Time zone information. null for an unspecified time zone, Z for UTC, and a value K like -8:00 for local time adjusted from UTC. m, mm The minute, from 0 through 59, or with a leading zero from 00 through 59. M, MM The month, from 1 through 12, or with a leading zero from 01 through 12. The abbreviated or full name of the month, for example, Jan or January, localized MMM, MMMM for the current culture. s, ss The second, from 0 through 59, or with a leading zero from 00 through 59. t, tt The first or both characters of the AM/PM designator. 