Chapter 1 3 First, the grammar and vocabulary of the C# language; second, the types available in the .NET librar- ies for building app features; and third, the fundamentals of cross-platform websites, services, and browser apps that you can build using C# and .NET. Most people learn complex topics best by imitation and repetition rather than reading a detailed explanation of the theory; therefore, I will not overload you with detailed explanations of every step throughout this book. The idea is to get you to write some code and see it run. You don’t need to know all the nitty-gritty details immediately. That will be something that comes with time as you build your own apps and go beyond what any book can teach you. In the words of Samuel Johnson, author of the English dictionary in 1755, I have committed “a few wild blunders, and risible absurdities, from which no work of such multiplicity is free.” I take sole respon- sibility for these and hope you appreciate the challenge of my attempt to lash the wind by writing this book about rapidly evolving technologies like C# and .NET, and the apps that you can build with them. If you have a complaint about this book, then please contact me before writing a negative review on Amazon. Authors cannot respond to Amazon reviews so I cannot contact you to resolve the problem and help you or listen to your feedback and try to do better in the next edition. Please ask a question on the Discord channel for this book at https://packt. link/csharp12dotnet8, email me at markjprice@gmail.com, or raise an issue in the GitHub repository for the book at the following link: https://github.com/markjprice/ cs12dotnet8/issues. Topics covered by this book The following topics are covered in this book: • Language fundamentals: Fundamental features of the C# language, from declaring variables to writing functions and object-oriented programming. • Library fundamentals: Fundamental features of the .NET base class library as well as some important optional packages for common tasks like database access. • Web development fundamentals: Fundamental features of the ASP.NET Core framework for server-side and client-side website and web service development. Topics covered by Apps and Services with .NET 8 The following topics are available in a companion book, Apps and Services with .NET 8: • Data: SQL Server, Azure Cosmos DB. Specialized libraries: Dates, times, time zones, and internationalization; common third-party • libraries for image handling, logging, mapping, and generating PDFs; multitasking and con- currency; and many more. • Services: Caching, queuing, background services, gRPC, GraphQL, Azure Functions, SignalR, and minimal APIs. • User interfaces: ASP.NET Core, Blazor, and .NET MAUI. 