Chapter 1 35 3. Enter as much detail as possible that will help me to diagnose the issue. For example: • The specific section title, page number, and step number. • Your code editor, for example, Visual Studio 2022, Visual Studio Code, or something else, including the version number. • As much of your code and configuration that you feel is relevant and necessary. • A description of the expected behavior and the behavior experienced. • Screenshots (you can drag and drop image files into the Issue box). The following is less relevant but might be useful: Your operating system, for example, Windows 11 64-bit, or macOS Ventura version 13.5.2 • • Your hardware, for example, Intel, Apple Silicon, or ARM CPU I cannot always respond immediately to issues. But I want all my readers to be successful with my book, so if I can help you (and others) without too much trouble, then I will gladly do so. Giving me feedback If you’d like to give me more general feedback about the book, then either email me at markjprice@ or ask me a question on Discord in the book channel. You can provide the feedback anon- gmail.com ymously, or if you would like a response from me, then you can supply an email address. I will only use this email address to answer your feedback. Please join me and your fellow readers on Discord using this invite: https://packt.link/ csharp12dotnet8. I recommend that you add the preceding link to your favorite bookmarks. I love to hear from my readers about what they like about my book, as well as suggestions for improve- ments and how they are working with C# and .NET, so don’t be shy. Please get in touch! Thank you in advance for your thoughtful and constructive feedback. Avoiding common mistakes After working through the step-by-step tasks in this book, readers often then strike out on their own and attempt to write similar code, but sometimes they hit problems and either raise an issue in the GitHub repository or post a question to the Discord channel for the book. From these, I have noted some common mistakes, so I maintain a page in the repository to highlight and explain these potential traps and how to fix them: https://github.com/markjprice/cs12dotnet8/blob/main/docs/errata/common-mistakes.md 