Building Serverless Nanoservices Using Azure Functions 442 Note that although the start time is Sun, 01 Jan 2023 00:00:00, that value is ex- cluded from the occurrences because it is not a “next” occurrence. So, Sunday only has five occurrences. Monday onward has the expected six occurrences per day. Azure Functions versions and languages Azure Functions version 4 of the runtime host is the only version still generally available. All older versions have reached end-of-life. Good Practice: Microsoft recommends using v4 for functions in all languages. v1, v2, and v3 are in maintenance mode and should be avoided. Languages and platforms supported by Azure Functions v4 include: • C#, F#: .NET 8, .NET 7, .NET 6, and .NET Framework 4.8. Note that .NET 6 and .NET 7 (and in future, .NET 9) are only supported in the isolated worker model because they are Standard-Term Support (STS) releases, or, in the case of .NET 6, they are older LTS releases. .NET 8 is supported in both isolated and in-process worker models because it is a Long-Term Support (LTS) release. • JavaScript: Node 14, 16, and 18. TypeScript is supported via transpiling (transforming/com- piling) to JavaScript. • Java 8, 11, and 17. • PowerShell 7.2. • Python 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, and 3.10. More Information: You can review the whole table of languages at the following link: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-vers ions?tabs=v4&pivots=programming-language-csharp#languages. In this book, we will only look at implementing Azure Functions using C# and .NET 8 so that we can use the in-process and isolated worker models and get LTS. For advanced uses, you can even register a custom handler that would enable you to use any language you like for the implementation of an Azure function. You can read more about Azure Functions custom handlers at the following link: https://learn.microsoft. com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-custom-handlers. Azure Functions worker models Azure Functions have two worker models, in-process and isolated, as described in the following list: 