Preface xxviii Chapter 15, Building Web Components Using Blazor, is about how to build user interface components using the new unified full-stack hosting of Blazor introduced in .NET 8. Blazor components can now be individually configured to execute on the client- and server-side in the same project. For times when you need to interact with browser features like local storage, you will learn how to perform JavaScript interop. An optional online-only section, Leveraging Open-Source Blazor Component Libraries, introduces some popular open-source libraries of Blazor components. Chapter 16, Building Mobile and Desktop Apps Using .NET MAUI, introduces you to building cross-plat- form mobile and desktop apps for Android, iOS, macOS, and Windows. You will learn the basics of XAML, which can be used to define the user interface for a graphical app. An online-only section, Implementing Model-View-ViewModel for .NET MAUI, covers best practice for architecting and imple- menting graphical apps by using Model-View-ViewModel. You will also see the benefits of using MVVM Toolkit and .NET MAUI Community Toolkit. Another online-only section, Integrating .NET MAUI Apps with Blazor and Native Platforms, covers building hybrid native and web apps that make the most of the operating system they run on. You will integrate native platform features like the system clipboard, filesystem, retrieve device and display information, and pop-up notifications. For desktop apps, you will add menus and manage windows. Conclusion Epilogue, describes your options for learning more about building apps and services with C# and .NET, and tools and skills you should learn to become a well-rounded professional .NET developer. An on- line-only section, Introducing the Survey Project Challenge, documents the product requirements for a survey/polling software solution that the reader can optionally attempt to implement and publish to a public GitHub repository to get feedback from the author and other readers. Appendix, Answers to the Test Your Knowledge Questions, has the answers to the test questions at the end of each chapter. You can read the appendix at the following link: https://github.com/markjprice/apps-services- . net8/blob/main/docs/B19587_Appendix.pdf What you need for this book You can develop and deploy C# and .NET apps and services using Visual Studio 2022, or Visual Studio Code and the command-line tools on most operating systems, including Windows, macOS, and many varieties of Linux. An operating system that supports Visual Studio Code and an internet connection is all you need to complete this book. If you prefer to use a third-party tool like JetBrains Rider, then you can. Downloading the color images of this book We also provide you with a PDF file that has color images of the screenshots and diagrams used in this book. The color images will help you better understand the changes in the output. You can download this file from https://packt.link/gbp/9781837637133. 